### Moving to the Cloud
In today's IT world, cloud computing is more important than ever. Explore cloud computing characteristics and deployment models, and discover how you can move your business needs to the cloud.

### Table of Contents
- What is Cloud Computing?
- Cloud Terminologies
- Cloud Characteristics
- The Private Cloud Deployment Model
- The Public Cloud Deployment Model
- The Community Cloud Deployment Model
- The Hybrid Cloud Deployment Model
- Common Implementation Obstacles
- The Two Types of Business Cloud Models
- Transitioning from SOA to Cloud
- Cloud Service Providers
- How Cloud Computing Adds Value to a Business
- Calculating the Cost of the Cloud

### What is Cloud Computing?
> Cloud computing is definitely a very common term these days amongst emerging and/or developing technologies. So what is it really all about? Well, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, or NIST, has released a definition that says, cloud computing is a model for enabling convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources, for example, networks, servers, storage, applications, and services, that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. So that's all well and good to say, but in a more realistic or day-to-day explanation, really just think about the utilities that you have in your home; none of us have the means to create our own phone network or our own power for our houses.

> So we rely on other businesses or organizations to provide the infrastructure for us and a phone call is a perfect example. You know, I can't build the infrastructure to make a phone call from my house to every other house in the world. I just don't have the means. But it's already there. It's accessible simply by subscribing to the services of the company that has the infrastructure. So they already have it. They let me use it for a small fee. This is exactly what cloud computing is. There are a number of organizations that have huge amounts of resources dedicated to IT, so I can take advantage of that. I can use their services. They will allocate some of those resources to me or my organization, so that I can use them as I need them, and I only have to pay for what I use. So I'm, in essence, creating an IT infrastructure, but I'm leasing it, if you will. I'm renting it from another provider, so that I don't have to purchase all of that infrastructure myself. So it's basically the same model. You just use the infrastructure of some other organization.

> Now there are two main concepts involved with cloud computing and the first one you see here is abstraction. And this is a process in which specific details are hidden or ignored to simplify or generalize something. And an example of this would be storage. You just need to store some data somewhere. Well, ultimately it really does not matter where it actually resides as long as you know how to get to it from your particular computer, for example. It doesn't really matter to you if that data is on a server that's sitting in the next office or if it's on a server halfway around the world. As long as you can gain access to it, it really doesn't matter where it is. So the specific details in terms of the location of that information just aren't pertinent. So they're ignored or simplified, so that, of course, we can simply access this content.

> Virtualization is a process in which software manages hardware resources, the physical host, so that resources can be used more efficiently by multiple virtualized guest systems. Now this is a concept that's been around a long time. A virtual machine is in essence the ability to install an operating system more than one time on the same physical computer. These days the hardware resources are very high. So to take a single physical server, for example, and install an operating system on it really does not tax the capabilities of that server at all. So virtualization is the process by packaging up multiple software representations of additional machines, so another operating system, and another operating system, and another operating system, all contained within software that will all make use of that same physical computer. So you could have 5, 6, 10, even well beyond that virtual machines running on the same collection of physical hardware.

> In terms of layers, there are three cloud layers and these terms might vary from definition to definition, but an infrastructure cloud abstracts applications from servers and servers from storage. So again, from the perspective of a customer, an application is running somewhere. We're able to access that application but, again, it doesn't really matter which server it's running on. And then the storage, the same idea. As long as the storage is accessible from any particular server, it does not need to be physically on that server. It could be on any server, so it really does not matter in terms of the location of an application, nor the storage from the perspective of a server. As long as it can be accessed, doesn't matter where it is.

> A content cloud abstracts data from the applications so in this regards, an application needs access to data. Again, it does not matter where it resides. It does not have to be on the same physical device. So if it's a database application, you can have your application on a device. The data resides somewhere else. Where? It doesn't matter as long as it's accessible. And an information cloud abstracts access from clients to data. So again, it's the same concept. It simply separates the device usually from the data. So you're accessing the information from some kind of device from somewhere. Again, it really does not matter. You can simply access that data from anything, from anywhere. So those are some of the primary concepts when dealing with cloud computing.

### Cloud Terminologies
> Let's have a look then at some of the terminologies that you are likely to hear in discussing cloud computing, and the first one is cloud itself. And this really just represents any kind of distinct IT environment regardless of what that environment includes as long as it is for the purpose of remotely provisioning, scalable, and measured IT resources. So again, this is any organization that has IT resources that they are going to make available to other customers that represents a cloud. An IT resource is any physical or virtual artifact, and the term there really is with respect to any kind of computing resource so physical or virtual in this case would likely refer to a physical computer, or a virtualized, a software-based computer, or a virtual machine is the term. They aren't the only things that can be virtualized and we'll discuss that in greater detail later. But software-based or hardware-based resources those are the things which we are going to be accessing in the cloud.

> On-premise is a term that usually refers to within a particular organization. So you see here a controlled IT environment, so it typically would refer to your organization or an internal private organization as opposed to the public cloud. So you see it's an alternative to cloud-based. We can either have all of the IT infrastructure within our own organization on-premise or we can have it in the cloud, somebody else's environment. Any given on-premise IT resource can access and interact with cloud-based IT resources and/or be moved to a cloud changing it to a cloud-based IT resource. So it's not set and/or static. Any kind of technology that you might be using on-premise can be migrated to a cloud-based solution. The cloud consumer is really any party that uses the cloud-based IT resources so any customer subscribing to the services of a cloud provider. And this is simply the party that provides the cloud-based IT resources. So anyone who says here, our resources are available, they are the provider, you sign up with them. You are the consumer.

> Scaling is a very common term and there are two primary directions of scaling, horizontal and vertical. And within the horizontal, we see this is a very common form of scaling in a cloud environment. So allocating new IT resources of the same type is referred to as scaling out. So for example, if you have a very robust web site that needs multiple servers to service the requests, then adding more servers for that same web site is referred to as scaling out. Releasing IT resources of the same type is the exact opposite so scaling in, maybe you allocated, let's just say for argument's sake, 10 servers and you decide, well, that's a little bit of overkill. We're not utilizing the...those resources effectively enough, so we'll pull some of them back maybe cut that in half to five servers that's scaling in. Vertical is a little less common in the cloud environment because it usually refers to having some kind of downtime. But this is replacing IT resources with another lower capacity system is referred to as scaling down whereas, again, the exact opposite is to scale up and that's replacing IT resources with another higher capacity. So it's not so much a matter of how many, but better resources, faster systems, more storage things like that.

> A cloud service is any IT resource that is made remotely accessible via the cloud, and there are any number of those. It can really refer to any kind of IT-based service. And then the cloud service consumer is a temporary runtime role that's assumed by a software program when accessing a cloud service. So if you have an application that need to create a record in a database and then do something in a bit of an automated fashion with that record, it is in fact the application that is assuming that role of service consumer while that processing is going on. So those are some of the basic terms that you will likely hear when discussing cloud environments.

## Cloud Characteristics
> There are five core attributes of a cloud computing service and they are as listed here; elasticity, on-demand, provider-pooled computing resources, metered service usage, and broad network access. Now we're going to go through each of those, but these are the characteristics that you could expect to find from a cloud service provider particularly, if you are considering a move or a migration to a cloud service, then you want to know that they are meeting these core attributes. So the first one elasticity, this is the ability to rapidly add, referred to as provisioning, and/or removing, deprovisioning, resources and/or services as needed. So the whole idea here is, of course, flexibility. If I need more of something, I can get it. If I need less of something, I can release what I have. It is very flexible. From the perspective of an individual customer, most large cloud providers present what would appear to be for all intents and purposes infinite resources. You know, obviously, it's not, but I just mean from the perspective of one customer, you really can have as much as you need. So it is very flexible. You decide you need more database servers, you can have them. You need more storage you can have it. It's there and it really isn't overtly limited, again, from the perspective of any given customer apart from your own budgetary constraints.

> On-demand cloud services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. You know, the Internet does not go down at least in terms of regular operating hours. So you can access your services from anywhere as long as you have connectivity to the Internet. So it is entirely accessible no matter what. Provider-pooled computing resources, this refers to the fact that the cloud provider acquires and maintains all computing hardware on which the cloud services run. So you don't have to purchase anything. You might be able to operate entirely within cloud-based services without purchasing any kind of hardware or infrastructure to support your IT environment apart from, you know, maybe, the desktop computers, or the laptops, or even the mobile devices, that your users require. But they basically acquire and maintain all of it. They pool it all together and then they allocate certain amounts to each customer.
Heading: Cloud Characteristics.

> On-demand cloud services are available anywhere and anytime with proper network connectivity.

> Metered service usage, it's in almost every case a subscription fee plus a billing model over and above that. So things like storage space and bandwidth consumption are measured so that you only pay for what you use. So again, depending on the provider, you might have a flat monthly fee just to have the service. Then you pay for each additional amount of storage or each additional amount of bandwidth that you use, so things like that. And broad network access cloud services can be accessed from any type of device. It doesn't matter. It could be a desktop, a laptop, any kind of mobile device, tablets, smartphones, you know, just about anything that is able to access any kind of IT related service or application can access the cloud services. So again, as long as you are evaluating cloud services, you just want to know that the cloud service provider does offer and/or meet all of these characteristics.

### The Private Cloud Deployment Model
> Cloud services don't always refer to public providers or using the public Internet. There is another type of cloud service and this is what's known as the private cloud deployment model. And with this, the cloud services and everything to do with it, all of the infrastructure is owned by a single organization. That infrastructure can be located on or offsite depending on how that organization is physically organized. So an example of this might be a very large company that has, let's say, we'll call it a headquarters and with that, they might have a data center, all of the IT infrastructure for the entire organization may reside in that headquarters or the organization. Then there might be multiple locations or branches all over the place that could be anywhere around the world, each of those separate branches or separate offices might then access all of the services that they require from the corporate headquarters. So it's the exact same model as a public cloud, but it's all owned and maintained by the single private organization.

> So this enables that organization to simply centralize access to all of the IT resources. There still might be different parts, locations, or departments as mentioned, but it allows you to control everything from a single and centralized location. So administration of the private cloud environment might be carried out still by internal employees, but you could also then outsource that to a third party if you decide to. But that, of course, is up to you. Now one of the main reasons why you might see this is changing what's called security or trust boundaries. The same organization is technically both the cloud consumer and the provider. So you do see a bit of a separation of roles here between the provider and the consumer. But with respect to cloud services, a private cloud still is maintained by the single organization. So security and trust can be an issue if you are looking at a public cloud model because you are, for example, storing data with a third-party company, and it's not even physically located within your own organization, that may be an issue for a lot of different companies or customers. They may not be able to do that. So by implementing a private cloud deployment model,

> they are still maintaining control over that data, that information, the security and the trust boundary stays within the organization. Now there is certainly a drawback to this. There's minimal cost efficiencies associated with this. You still have to acquire all the physical hardware. You still have to implement everything. You still have to maintain it and upgrade it, things like that. So you don't quite get the cost effectiveness of a public cloud environment. But in terms of benefit, you get that enhanced security. All of the computing resources, for example, are behind a corporate firewall. So you're just removing that third party. And as mentioned earlier, that can be a barrier to some organizations. You simply cannot store a data, or run an application, or do anything outside of their own control. So you certainly get the greater control, the greater security, might not be as cost effective, but you need to weigh those out in terms of whether or not a private versus a public cloud is going to suit your needs.

### The Public Cloud Deployment Model
> A public cloud deployment model is any kind of cloud environment that is accessible by the general public. So the services and the infrastructure of the provider are simply offered to various clients and, again, that could be anyone, anywhere as long as it's the general public that is able to access this model, this cloud environment; that is a public cloud deployment model. All of the infrastructure, all of the resources are owned by a third-party cloud provider, and they typically offer these commercialized cloud services and IT resources to any kind of consumer organization. One example, and this is only one of many, but Google offers, let's say, something like storage. Anyone can store data with Google. You are taking your data and placing it on the physical resources within Google; that is a public cloud deployment model.

> Now one of the nice things about the public model is that it is the responsibility of the cloud provider for creating and maintaining all of the resources; so the hardware, the software, the licensing, the upgrades, the maintenance, all of that is now offloaded on to the provider. You don't have to do any of that. So if you think about within maybe your own organization, how many times you've had to purchase new equipment, purchase new software, distribute that software, apply upgrades, all of that goes away. It is the responsibility entirely of the public cloud provider to maintain that equipment and those software applications. So it's very well suited for environments that have to manage load spikes or unexpected traffic. If you get a very high or rapid increase in growth, for example, that just wasn't anticipated, then you have this very high demand for a particular application, or a web site, or anything along those lines. Cloud providers are able to allocate additional resources very easily to handle those spikes –

> also, to host Software as a Service application. So we'll talk about SaaS in greater detail later on. But the general idea behind that is rather than your organization purchasing, and licensing, and distributing a software application, simply access it from the cloud provider; that is a Software as a Service application. Also for environments that are developing applications, you can use this interim infrastructure for developing and testing those applications. So rather than having to build an entire development and lab environment, use the cloud providers. And just basically, manage all of the applications that are consumed by your users and there could be a lot of them. So again, the resources of the cloud provider are much better at handling that high degree of simultaneous connections. So the major benefit of the public cloud is the reduced capital expenditure. And with that lower operational IT cost so, again, you don't have to front all of the money to purchase this infrastructure. You simply subscribe to them and basically that lowers your overall expenditures and hopefully lowers your operational IT cost at the same time.

### The Community Cloud Deployment Model
> Another type of cloud service that is available is what's known as the Community Cloud Deployment Model and this is similar to a public cloud, except access is limited to a specific community of cloud consumers, a membership, if you will. Now the infrastructure and the services may be jointly owned by the community members or still by a third-party provider, who provisions it as a public cloud but with limited access. So again, there's this exclusive membership, if you will. With that, the community members typically share responsibility for defining and evolving the community cloud. So it's not just a single organization that would control everything. Now there is certainly a benefit to this, reduced costs compared to a private cloud as it is shared by a larger group. So the example here might be that you were considering public cloud services, but maybe you've determined you simply can't go that route may be because of security concerns.

> Well, you still want to go with the cloud model, but implementing an entire private cloud simply might cost too much. So if you can find other organizations with similar needs to help share that cost, obviously they come down with respect to how much you might have to pay. So an example might be government departments requiring access to the same data concerning local population or infrastructure, such as hospitals, roads, electrical stations, or anything along those lines. But the core components here or the core concept, I guess, is that they have similar needs. So it could be anything as long as the infrastructure and the services that are required are similar for each member, then it would benefit each of them to help implement this community cloud and offset some of their own costs. As mentioned, it's not as common, but certainly something that you may find within these collections of similar organizations.

### The Hybrid Cloud Deployment Model
> A hybrid cloud deployment model, as the name suggests, is any kind of a mix of deployment models. So it's any cloud environment that's comprised of two or more different cloud deployment models. You might be using a private cloud within your own organization, but then you might also include some public cloud services that would be a mix, a hybrid. This can be used for handling what's known as cloud bursting, wherein you simply aren't able to handle, let's say, a particular amount of traffic on a web site within your private solution. So you offload that to a public. They're much better at handling that workload. So you simply involve or incorporate this additional service. Now you've got a hybrid model. Now whether it's a web site, or data storage capacity, or processing power, it doesn't matter. It simply means you've exceeded your boundaries within your own solution, so we're going to incorporate something else within the public solution, and that's a term again referred to as cloud bursting.

> So an example here, might be to deploy cloud services that process sensitive data to a private cloud, something that's still managed and maintained internally, while deploying less sensitive cloud services to a public cloud. So we have both. So again with this, you might be able to hopefully take advantage of the secured applications and data that are being hosted in the private cloud while realizing the cost benefits of keeping the shared data and applications on the public. Several organizations again are limited in terms of what they can do with public cloud services. They may be cannot store data offsite. So that negates the possibility of a public cloud. So they realized two different benefits here: they maintain the control of that data, they probably maintain the security of that data by using a private cloud solution,

> but at the same time, public cloud usually offers a cost benefit by lowering the infrastructure cost. So with this, you gain both benefits. But there is a drawback. It can be complex and challenging to create and maintain. There could be potential conflicts in the cloud environments. Now we've also got split management responsibilities, who is responsible for what. So the complexity does need to be weighed out in comparison to the benefits to determine whether or not a hybrid deployment model is, in fact, going to benefit your organization.

### Common Implementation Obstacles
> The implementation of a cloud solution may certainly present you with some obstacles, and you might find that they fall under the various categories of technical obstacles to adoption, technical obstacles to growth, policy and business obstacles, and behavioral obstacles to adoption. And we'll take a look at each of those. So beginning with the technical obstacles to adoption, you may face some issues when it comes to the availability of a service. At the end of the day, again you are relying on Internet connectivity to gain access to a particular application or a service, and that's not always overly reliable. There are lots of places where people do not have Internet connectivity, so availability becomes an issue. Data confidentiality and auditability, issues with where data is stored, and how secure it is stored, and whether or not you can access reports on who has been able to do what in terms of accessing that data, that's the auditability. And you may encounter lock-in scenarios wherein if you do go with a particular vendor solution, it's not that you're locked into this forever, but you may find it difficult to transition away from that into something else, should that not meet your needs.

> As far as the obstacles to growth are concerned, there can certainly be some performance unpredictability. You just never know sometimes what kind of performance is going to be required of a particular application or service. You might encounter data transfer bottlenecks, again depending on what it is you're trying to do. You may be trying to upload a lot of database records, for example, and you're finding that there are various bottlenecks when dealing with getting them across the Internet up to the provider. There can always be bugs in large-scale distribution systems. You know, any kind of a large-scale system, regardless of where it is, there can always be bugs. Whether or not you're able to scale rapidly enough with respect to any kind of application or service...and the same thing goes with storage, whether or not you're going to be able to scale appropriately in terms of how much storage you require. Now typically how service providers can handle it in terms of infrastructure, but of course, there is always a cost associated with that. The more you scale the more you're going to pay. So that can present an obstacle as well.

> Now from the perspective of policy and business obstacles, you might find issues here, something what is known as reputation fate sharing. And this is, I guess in terms of a simple explanation, the one bad apple kind of scenario wherein if there are poor services by one cloud service provider, that kind of spreads, if you will, to all cloud service providers. So since this one's bad, they're all bad. Software licensing issues, there certainly could be concerns there and not so much that you aren't able to do it within a cloud environment, but maybe you have already purchased a licensed software, and then, you know, there's at that point no reason to move to the cloud because we already have it. Behavioral obstacles to adoption might include a need for control. In cloud solutions, a lot of cases you lose a fair degree of control, and some people simply won't stand for that. Even if it is acceptable, they just don't want to give up the control over this information or this application. There can certainly be a fear of change, and that's not unnatural in any situation. It is something new. Therefore, this could present some fear.

> Aversion toward risk or loss, and that can be tightly linked to the lack of control. So you know, what happens if this particular risk does present itself or we do lose this data? You know, how do we respond to that? The endowment effect basically is people placing more value on something, simply because they own it. So maybe they already have come up with some kind of a solution internally, that becomes very valuable to them even if the cloud solution might, in fact, be more valuable. In other words, they don't want to give it up because they think it's such a valuable solution. And there can also be, of course, a bias toward a flat rate payment structure. You know, it's always going to be this much per month, such as a lease on equipment, for example, as opposed to the varying rate of a cloud solution. So you know, the flat rate sometimes is more attractive because you can budget more easily. So a lot of those obstacles might present themselves when you are looking to implement a cloud solution, so they do need to be addressed and handled as effectively as possible.

### The Two Types of Business Cloud Models
> When it comes time then to implement a cloud solution, you might want to determine what kind of business model you're looking at with respect to cloud services. And we have two basic types: cloud-based and cloud-enabled. Now with cloud-based business models, this is one wherein the organization is completely aimed at, or reliant on, and/or based on cloud computing environments. The applications that you are using are entirely hosted in a cloud, and end users can access the required applications or data by simply providing a username and password. Now this is something that you see fairly commonly in smaller organizations or maybe startups that just don't have the necessary infrastructure in place to create their own internal solution. So they are entirely cloud-based. Their applications, their messaging, their web site, all of those things are entirely hosted within a cloud. So that's the cloud-based business model.

> The cloud-enabled business model is certainly similar, but it's just some components of cloud computing to achieve beneficial results in terms of how the business operates. So only a portion of the business functionality is reliant on cloud-based applications, but not entirely dependent on cloud services. So you might still have an existing internal IT infrastructure, but maybe you're looking at implementing a new application, or a new service, or any kind of functionality that would require a significant investment with respect to new equipment or new software. So instead of doing it that way, we'll just look at that component only in the cloud. And basically some of our IT solution is then internal and some of it is in the cloud, and that's the cloud-enabled business model. So whichever one you feel suits your needs, of course, hopefully you can implement it appropriately and achieve the desired results.

### Transitioning from SOA to Cloud
> Many applications these days are designed under an architecture known as SOA or service-oriented architecture. And this is a method of software design that produces a set of services. Now that's a fairly general term to just say "services." So to give you an idea, one particular service might be responsible simply for authenticating a user account. Another service might be entirely responsible for monitoring the application. So you have these various types of services that are loosely coupled but yet still work together, but are accessible from different applications in separate business domains. So you might have a number of different applications, but they are all using the same services so that authentication, for example, might be necessary in multiple different applications, but it's the same authentication service in every case.

> So with these SOA type of applications, they're generally intrinsically web-aware and supported by multiple different platforms, so they're very common and very flexible. They're elastic. They can be adjusted to meet the varying requirements of any particular organization. So if you have such an application in use, you might be looking at transitioning from that to a cloud-based solution, and that may present some challenges, but cloud computing, like SOA, is inherently also service-oriented. You have very similar collections of services in cloud-based solutions as well. They operate in much the same way as an SOA-based application. The major difference with SOA is that cloud computing initiatives typically require Service Level Agreements or SLAs. And they are these contracts between the end users and the cloud computing service provider that effectively outlines what you can expect in terms of our service. The provider agrees to provide this level of service and you agree, of course, to pay for the service and, you know, all of those different aspects are outlined in the SLA, and they're typically required by all cloud computing infrastructures.

> So SOA and cloud solutions can absolutely complement each other. SOA adoption experiences can help with the decision to transition to a cloud-based solution because a successful SOA solution will typically support the transition to the cloud because they are so compatible. An immature but yet somewhat successful SOA solution can also sometimes result in a successful transition to the cloud. Just might require a little more careful planning and management, you know, so the term "immature" here means, well, maybe there are some aspects that we have yet to address. And even a failed SOA initiative can still typically result in a challenging but yet still successful transition to the cloud as well because like anything, you learn from your failures. You realize, well, we weren't able to address this issue with our SOA initiative, but maybe we can address that with a cloud solution. Now maybe you can't. Obviously it's one of those things that you never know until you try. But if you have already been operating under an SOA type of architecture, there may be a simple transition. There may be a somewhat convoluted transition or may be difficult, but in a lot of cases, because of their inherent compatibility, you can generally transition from one to the other, in this case, from SOA to cloud, usually fairly easily depending on how well your initiative went in the first place.

### Cloud Service Providers
> When it comes to choosing a cloud service provider, one of the first things you need to do is to assess and analyze your own needs first. So what are the strategic objectives of your cloud program? What is it that you need to accomplish? How will your service be used? Who are the users and what are their expectations and requirements? And of course, can they be met? What impact will a cloud model have on your data center workflows, policies, processes, and skills requirements? How will you handle policy around identity, access control, and user permissions? And that can typically be a key consideration. And which operational tools will be used for event and performance management, service desk, configuration and change management, monitoring and logging, and auditability requirements? So are all of these in place?

> From that point, you definitely need to analyze the provider's security. Where is the data stored and what physical security controls are in place? How is the data stored and is there adequate electronic intrusion protection? How are you going to be advised of any kind of security incidents and/or compromises to that data? And do they comply with the regulatory and governmental requirements for privacy and other legal requirements? And then finally, analyze the provider standardization limitations. How do they stack up, if you will, when it comes to interoperability, integration, and portability for your particular solution? And definitely analyze the provider application migration abilities. How easy will it be for you to migrate from your existing solution through to the cloud solution? And also will that bring into account any kind of lock-in issues wherein it becomes very difficult to move away from that or maybe back to what you had in the first place? So like anything, it requires some due diligence, a little bit of research, but hopefully as long as you go through all of those points and make sure you have a good understanding of what you need versus what they can provide, then you can make the right choice on a provider.

### How Cloud Computing Adds Value to a Business
> Understanding the value of cloud computing can be particularly useful if you are trying to do a proof of concept, for example, or just trying to convince those that sign the checks, if you will, that this is going to add value to your organization. And it absolutely can by taking advantage of the various economic benefits that it offers. And within that field, we have probably first and foremost the usage-based pricing. You simply don't pay for what you don't use. And I guess if you look at that from the other direction, you only pay for what you do use. So even though you might have a little bit of variance in what your costs are each month, you know that you are only paying for what you use, so your utilization is very good. In an internal solution, you might have purchased a number of different software applications or various hardware, of course, that ultimately just gets under-used. But you've already paid for it, so it really doesn't matter in terms of what your usage is at that point. You are paying for something that you aren't using and that just doesn't happen in the cloud.

> The elasticity definitely adds value. Again, the flexibility to allocate resources on demand whenever you need them and to be able to deallocate those resources on demand whenever you need to as well. Cloud computing is simply very flexible and it can respond very rapidly to unexpected changes in an environment. And the transference of risk, when you make very large capital expenditures to purchase an IT infrastructure, you're assuming the risk that goes along with that with respect to things like if you lose it due to a disaster or if it just goes down and you have some very high cost to replace it. Well, a lot of that goes away with cloud computing, if not all of it. You don't need to purchase anything upfront so you can shift entirely from capital expenditures to operational expenditures, and there's usually a lot lower risk associated with operational expenditures. All of the equipment, its maintenance, its upkeep, its replacement if necessary, all falls on the provider. So that risk that you might have assumed previously by purchasing yourself really is offloaded to the provider, hence the transference of risk. So there really is a lot of value added to an organization by moving to cloud computing solutions.

### Calculating the Cost of the Cloud
> If you are considering a move to a cloud solution, it's always a good idea to work out a rough estimate of what the value of a cloud solution can bring to the organization versus, of course, what the cost is. So a lot of people are probably going to want to know, well, what do the numbers look like. So there are some basic equations that you can use. The terms that are all here are just basically to be able to assign a name to something, so ValueCLOUD, for example, is obviously the overall value of the cloud solution. So that is equal to the revenue that's generated minus the service cost of the cloud. Obviously, we still have to pay something for our cloud solution. So what kind of revenue will it generate minus the cost of using it equals the overall value of the cloud solution.

> So the ValueCLOUD simply refers to what the value of the overall computing deployment that you go with. Some of the factors include obviously the basic cost of the various cloud computing units. Now that is going to vary. It might have, you know of course, a completely different cost structure for virtual machines compared to application usage. So you need to try to figure out what it is you're going to require and what each unit. And when I say unit, in this case, a virtual machine might be a unit, a particular application might be a unit. So you would have to try to figure out as many of them as you can. Then any additional services that you might want over and above that, security services perhaps, encryption services, things along those lines, malware, antivirus, all of those would be considered, various other services, and any other additional resource charges that may appear. If all of a sudden you have to allocate new resources to support your database, or your web site, or anything along those lines, those are all going to affect the overall value of the cloud. The service cost in terms of the cloud is certainly usually considered to be a machine instance per hour. But as mentioned previously, there's more than just virtual machines, for example.

> But something like a virtual machine does usually have a cost structure per hour of operation. So most providers can give you these values, so you can help to figure it out. So cost cloud then equals your cost of instances plus the cost of, for example, things like storage units and network units. So again there are examples of these various units. You need to try to get a pretty good handle on what you're going to need and what the costs are for each of those different units. Add them all together and we have our cost cloud. So again we compare that to the revenue generated to calculate the value of the cloud. So some key variables to consider when evaluating the cost of setting up an in-house solution include things like the data center cost, the unit costs, and the utilization, but all from the internal perspective. So what you're trying to do is, of course, weigh these out. Well, what if we create the solution in-house? We're going to need this data center. We're going to need this many units and our utilization is going to be X. So if you can determine those values, you can then compare that with what it might be if you went with the cloud, and simply determine in the long run which solution might be best for your organization.
